Highlights

Method for revealing three D nucleosome positionings and orientations in chromosomes

Two types of basic secondary structural motifs in nucleosome folding in yeast genome

Coupling between nucleosome folding structure and epigenetic features at each locus

Agreement with regular and irregular chromatin fiber modelsSummaryElucidating the global and local rules that govern genome-wide, hierarchical chromatin architecture remains a critical challenge. Current high-throughput chromosome conformation capture . The smallest repeated structural unit of eukaryotic chromatin is the nucleosome . The atomic structure of the nucleosome has been revealed by X-ray crystallography, delineating how DNA is wrapped around histone octamers in a superhelix of approximately one and a half turns . Meanwhile, the spatial organization of nucleosomes in chromatin remains an active debate, and several models for basic nucleosome arrangements in chromatin have been proposed . Classically, a regular nucleosome arrangement in a zig-zag or solenoid manner packed in a 30-nm-diameter fiber-like structure was widely believed based on electron microscopy . Supporting this, angstrom resolution structures of a tetra-nucleosome nucleosome folding unit have been solved using in vitro reconstituted chromatin fibers by X-ray crystallography and cryo-EM . An opposing model of random, or disordered, nucleosome folding called polymer melt has been predicted by cryo-EM and X-ray scattering analyses on human chromatin at both mitotic phase and interphase . Meanwhile, heterogeneous nucleosome folding in a chromatin fiber was suggested by an EM tomography analysis with selective labeling of mitotic/interphase human chromatin  by electron cryotomography of budding yeast and picoplankton chromatin  and by a combined method of Monte Carlo simulation and EM for in vitro reconstituted chromatin . However, it remains unclear how nucleosome folding structures depend on specific features of endogenous loci. In fact, analyses on in vitro reconstituted chromatin fibers have suggested the possibility of variable nucleosome compaction in different epigenetic conditions, including histone modifications and binding of chromatin-associating proteins . This consideration thus highlights the need for a structural analysis of chromatin at specific loci across the genome.To analyze locus-dependent chromatin structures, high-throughput chromatin conformation capture . Computational analysis based on this information enables derivation of three D structural models of individual loci across whole chromosomes . This approach conventionally allowed structural analysis at  approximately 1 Mbp resolution  and elucidated large-scale structural motifs, such as topologically associating domains in mammalian chromosomes  and centromere/telomere clustering of yeast chromosomes . In contrast, recently, efforts were made to increase this resolution , and now, nucleosome-level analysis has been achieved by a method called Micro-C in yeast . In addition, another sequencing-based method called ionizing radiation-induced spatially correlated cleavage of DNA with sequencing . Crucially, however, despite these advances, well-defined three D nucleosome folding structures specific to each locus have still not been obtained, so the genome-wide nature of nucleosome folding remains enigmatic.To pursue a further finer resolution, nucleosome orientation needs to be considered as well as nucleosome positions in three D, as done in EM analysis where space-filling nucleosome structures were fitted to imaging data by varying their orientations . It is predicted that nucleosome orientation has a dynamic interplay with epigenetic states, because histone modifications or binding of chromatin-associating proteins occurs at the sub-nucleosomal level, such as in specific histones or DNA locations within the nucleosome, respectively . In fact, histone modifications occur asymmetrically along the wrapped DNA and correlate with transcription , highlighting the potential importance of nucleosome orientation to genome functions. Therefore, here, we developed a Hi-C method for analyzing genome-wide nucleosomal interactions, including their orientations, coupled with computational three D structure derivation . Furthermore, to perform an unbiased analysis of entry and exit interactions, we used paired-end tag , in which the anchoring of adaptors to fragmented DNA ends allowed elimination of unligated products that cause massive false-positive exit-to-entry interactions in upstream-downstream nucleosome pairs  , and its small genome size  , and observed periodic peaks every 160 bp, consistent with nucleosome spacing, and shifts of the peaks for interaction classes, suggesting that 134-bp residues on average remain on fragmented nucleosomes    . or other significant long-distance interactions. These results suggest that local nucleosomal interactions are much more frequent, although these long-range patterns appeared when we reduced the genome cutting frequency to 1/10 the usual amount  . For optimization, we constrained distances between DNA entry/exit positions in the modeled nucleosomes under free energy potentials given by Hi-CO interaction frequencies. The potential, V, between DNA entry/exit sites having an interaction frequency, w, and separated by a distance, d, was provided by. DNA beads at the entry and exit points in the nucleosome model are indicated in red and green, respectively. and zig-zag  model.. Under this definition, entry/exit site pairs having a higher interaction frequency tend to be constrained to a short fixed distance, but pairs having a lower frequency tend to be loosely separated , rather than being explicitly considered, as many MD simulation works do .The determined three D-optimized structure revealed characteristic folding structures of nucleosomes, including their orientations across the genome . Using Hi-CO three D structure analysis, we examined existence of further short-range chromatin interaction changes by analyzing S. cerevisiae cells synchronized at S, M, and G1 phases , contact probability curves revealed enriched short-range interactions around  approximately 10 kbp in G1 and M phases and a longer-range interaction preference in S phase . Further, the loops did not coincide with replicated genome regions in S phase   for glucose . Gray areas indicate non-uniquely mapped regions of sequenced reads. Right shows schematic models. at different cell phases.. In contrast, orientation changes were more common in promoter or terminator regions . These results imply existence of common motifs in chromatin, but this feature remains unverified in vivo across the genome. We searched for common motifs in three D chromosome structure by overlaying an entire set of local nucleosome pathways in a three D space using an approach similar to the Ramachandran plot in protein structure analysis . This indicates that the N to the minus 1st, Nth and N+1st nucleosomes are located at similar distance from each other. However, the N+2nd nucleosomes have two alternative preferred positions, which indicates the presence of two types of basic tetra-nucleosome-sized motifs  showed longer inter-nucleosome distances on average, whereas loci with gene body enriched histone modifications, such as H3K36me2 and H3K36me3, showed shorter distances. We also found that transcriptionally active modifications, such as H3K18ac and H3K4ac , showed larger distances, whereas inactive marks, H3K79me3  and H3R2me2a , showed shorter distances. We also observed binding-complex-dependent trends with general transcription factors , having the longest average distances, whereas transcription/export complex , had the shortest average distances. In contrast, trends in the nucleosome orientation bias did not exhibit apparent tendencies at promoter/gene-body regions or highly transcribed genes but were more specific to histone modification or binding protein species. Transcription factor Reb1  showed the greatest inward orientation bias, while proteins involved in transcriptional elongation Spt6 and Spt16  showed the highest outward bias. Meanwhile, beta-structure preference against alpha-structure , leading to increased Pol II binding irrespective of promoter/gene-body regions. Given that nucleosome orientation at Pol-II-bound loci is biased toward outward , caused opposite changes compared to the Set2 deletion. Nucleosome orientation was biased to inward at Pol-II-bound regions, while inter-nucleosome distance and beta-structure preference were decreased , caused intermediate levels of decreased inter-nucleosome distances and beta-structure preference. These results suggest that Pol II binding is a major factor influencing nucleosome folding status.Meanwhile, we found a variety of factors that alter local nucleosome folding structures, in contrast to the global effects by Pol II. For example, inter-nucleosome distances at H3K9ac-, H3K27ac-, and H3K4ac-modified loci are decreased by Gcn5 deletion more than Rpb2 downregulation, suggesting that histone acetylation can be a substantial factor for nucleosome folding status, presumably through the weakened nucleosome interaction resulting from neutralization of charges in histone tails . For another example, binding loci of cohesin loading factors, Scc2 and Scc4, showed decreased inter-nucleosome distance by Set2 deletion and inward orientation bias by Esa1 downregulation despite the trends by Pol II binding, suggesting that binding of cohesion loading proteins is also a factor for nucleosome folding status probably due to its strong affinity to other factors involved in chromosome organization . We summarize the relationships between nucleosome folding properties and epigenetic features in Table S1. Additional Structural Features Observed in Hi-COInspection of the Hi-CO matrices revealed additional unique characteristic signatures, which can contribute to higher order structuring in chromosomes. In addition to the gene crumple structures in individual gene loci , interestingly, the colored matrix revealed a distinctive type of motif that we term oriented clusters, which are uniformly colored squared regions in the Hi-CO matrix  may cause nucleosome orientation uniformity, where polarized nucleosome affinity at DNA entry and exit sites produces clusters of similarly oriented nucleosomes .See also Figure S7 and Table S1.  associated with Pol II C-terminal domain phosphatase Ssu72 . To test if the observed feature is caused by Ssu72, we carried out Hi-CO analysis for a mutant strain, ssu72-2, that expresses Ssu72 with impaired phosphatase activity . We observed that loop-like interactions at some promoter and terminator regions disappeared in ssu72-2 cells, although others were retained or were difficult to identify due to weak interactions . Consistent with this, a statistical analysis revealed that interactions occurring at promoter and terminator regions are reduced to 34% and 20%, respectively . These results suggest that Ssu72 significantly contributes to loop formation in a substantial fraction of genes.DiscussionOur data demonstrate structuring rules of nucleosome folding throughout the chromosomal hierarchy , because each of the purified, epigenetically homogeneous nucleosomes in the fiber should form unified local folding structures among neighbor nucleosomes. On the other hand, the features are also consistent with the heterogeneous nucleosome folding observed in in vivo chromosomes  because of the locus-dependent epigenetic features across the genome. We propose this dual nature of regular and irregular structuring in chromosomes provides a variable but logically organized structural basis to serve as an effective template for various types of DNA processes at each locus.Our Hi-CO methodology determines three D structures of nucleosome folding inherent to epigenetic functions at each locus across the genome. Using this methodology, revealing fine resolution structures will provide insights on structure-function relationships in chromosomes at the single-nucleosome or protein-molecule level. In particular, nucleosome orientation will provide structural information specific to epigenetic factors, whereas inter-nucleosome distance will provide information indicating transcriptional states and promoter/gene-body regions. Our analysis of mutants revealed that nucleosome folding structures can be altered by epigenetic/transcriptional states; however, we also note the possibility that folding structures actively regulate epigenetic/transcriptional states at loci by restricting or enhancing binding of regulatory factors. We expect that applying this methodology to other eukaryotes and cell conditions will promote identification of unifying rules underlying the structure-function relationships.STAR★Methods Key Resources TableTabled
                            1REAGENT or RESOURCESOURCEIDENTIFIERAntibodiesRabbit polyclonal anti-histone H3  with 2% glucose or galactose. For the tetracycline-inducible gene downregulation strains, 10 μg/mL doxycycline hyclate , reaching OD600 = 0.4-0.5. For the ssu72-2 strain, cells were incubated at 37°C during the alpha-factor treatment. Alternatively, for synchronizing at M phase, cells were first synchronized to G1 phase by resuspending in 1.2 L of fresh medium, followed by adding alpha-factor and incubating as described above. Cells were then collected by centrifugation, and the medium was removed. Cells were resuspended in 1.2 L of fresh medium and incubated for 80 min at 30°C to re-enter M phase. Method Details Library preparation for Hi-CO sequencingLibrary construction was performed as follows. Cultured yeast cells synchronized at G1, S or M phase were fixed with formaldehyde  with some modifications. First, cells were collected by centrifugation, immersed in 70% ethanol, washed with 50 mM sodium citrate buffer   similar to that done in Micro-C . For this assignment, we assumed that the plus and minus strand reads originate from interactions at DNA exit and entry points in nucleosomes, respectively, and 134 bp of DNA is wrapped around the nucleosome based on the result of Figures S1F and S1G. Under this assumption, the center position of the interacting nucleosome can be obtained as 67 bp upstream of the read end coordinates. The assignment was done by finding the closest nucleosome locus along the genome coordinate against the obtained center nucleosome position from each read . Consistent with this, the full contact map shows random sparse patterns of long range and inter-chromosomal contacts over the entire area without any apparent regional bias   and ChIA-PET ) .All read types showed periodic peaks in probabilities spaced by 160 bp, which suggests that interactions between adjacent , 147 bp of DNA wrap around a nucleosome. Of that, 121 bp is physically folded to histone octamers, so our value of 134 bp does not necessarily indicate overdigestion. We also determined DNA fragment size after MNase digestion by sequencing. We found that 85.8% of DNA fragments were sized over 121 bp, suggesting that overdigestion did not likely occur in most genomic regions.Analysis for no ligation controlTo investigate genome-level bias in the efficiency of MNase digestion and adaptor ligation at each nucleosome locus, we conducted the Hi-CO assay without performing ligation between the biotinylated adaptors, as done in Micro-C . As a result, the average genomic distance between the two ends of reads, i.e., the fragment size after MNase digestion, was confirmed to be significantly smaller than interaction distances detected in Hi-CO , and we confirmed that this normalization causes minimal effects , we observed structures encompassing one or multiple gene loci , although they may potentially be caused by mechanical delimitation with the nucleosome free regions at the highly transcribed promoters or by biased formaldehyde crosslinking in the promoter regions. Nevertheless, we characterized these merged gene structures observed in interaction matrices using our quantitative data that consisted of the complete read strand information.In order to identify merged gene structures on the genome, we created a summed contact matrix from total counts of inward, outward and tandem reads of our data. We then thresholded the matrix and extracted loci groups as elements sequential to the diagonal at each locus. The existence of genes in the loci groups was examined by matching with gene coding regions. Information on gene coding regions and directions were obtained from Saccharomyces genome database . Indeed, the majority of neighboring convergent gene pairs in the genome sequence form merged gene structures, while only a small fraction of divergent/same-strand or non-neighboring gene pairs did  .Theoretical Hi-CO matrices of regular fiber modelsWe presented examples of Hi-CO matrices and three D structures for the solenoid  and zig-zag  regular nucleosome folding model. The matrices were obtained by calculating reciprocals of distances between DNA entry and exit points of corresponding three D models. A constant or repetitive pattern along the genome coordinate represents a regular folding, which appeared inconsistent with the measured heterogeneous Hi-CO pattern. However, note that these structures are improper for statistical or quantitative analysis, since they are obtained by organisms other than S. cerevisiae.MNase digestion heterogeneity across lociWe confirmed that the proportions of MNase digestion frequencies at DNA entry and exit sites were nearly even at all nucleosome loci  . These histone beads were placed at vertices of a square, where the equilibrium distances between the center of the square and the vertices were 1.18 nm . DNA double helix was represented by strings of beads whose radii were 1 nm . One bead of DNA corresponded to 5.88 bp, since the distance between base pairs in B-form DNA was 0.34 nm. A total of 23 sequential DNA beads wrapped around the four histone particles in a left-handed super-helical geometry for 1.65 turns with a radius of 4.18 nm and a pitch of 2.39 nm .Note that the aim of our MD simulation was to optimize the positions of the DNA entry and exit points in nucleosomes to best satisfy the Hi-CO data, rather than to simulate physical fluctuations of nucleosomes as many MD simulation works did . Because of this, only separate nucleosomes were included in the simulation, and DNA entry/exit positions under the potential experimentally given by the Hi-CO frequency were constrained to obtain the nucleosome folding structure. Therefore, DNA linkers between nucleosomes or other structural factors that affect nucleosome orientations were not particularly considered in the simulation, as they were assumed to be included in the experimental potential. We also confirmed when assuming such linker beads, adjacent nucleosome orientations were significantly restricted and biased to specific orientations, which failed to satisfy the Hi-CO data , and d0 = 2 nm. Note that, because DNA only exists within separate nucleosome models, we simply assumed potentials for DNA to be located around histones with a binding force among DNA and histones .Vex represents excluded volume effects between beads. The potential against beads separated by a distance, d, is modeled by:. beta is an offset distance in the case of i = 1 and set to  where the potential was forced into a harmonic form. Our potential avoided each nucleosome pair having a common equilibrium distance due to the majority w = 0 elements in the Hi-CO matrix, which often gave an artificial circular or helical chromosome structure.Vlink is the potential that links adjacent nucleosome pairs even if there are few read counts between them:. This potential is used when determining the chromosome level structure . This allows approximation of chromosome structures to a previous model under quadratic potentials consistently with previous kb-scale computational approaches . When applying this potential, VHiCO for beads separated by greater than 200 nm are regarded as being constant in order to reduce the calculation cost, where the cut-off distance, 200 nm, is equal to an estimated bead size from the low-resolution three D model.Langevin thermostat simulations and simulated annealingWe performed a SA-MD simulation at a given temperature by using a Langevin thermostat algorithm with the BAOAB scheme . Masses of DNA and histone beads were assigned to be 1 and 8, respectively, according to the ratio of molecular weights. Time in the simulation was normalized by , where ε = 0.014 kcal/mol, m = 1 Da, and ξ = 1 nm. The damping constant and the time step were set to 1 and 0.0001, respectively. Simulations were started from an initial structure, where the nucleosome array was aligned linearly when determining multiple gene loci level structures or aligned along the low-resolution three D model when determining chromosome level structures, followed by structure relaxation by the conjugate gradient energy minimization . The temperature of the system was originally set to 600 K, but was gradually cooled down to 300 K over 500,000 steps, and then down to 0.1 K over 1,000,000 steps. Simulations and analyses were performed on HOKUSAI GreatWave Supercomputer at RIKEN in Japan.Tabled
                            1Number of stepsRMSD . This resolution difference suggests the requirement of further improvements in resolution to couple these methods, and we expect it might be allowed by developments in the optimization algorithms or by experimentally obtaining much more read counts.Definitions of metrics for characterizing nucleosome folding structureThe inter-nucleosome distance, l, is defined as: compared to the human and fly genome . Reducing MNase further will continue to increase the fragment size leading to a situation similar to conventional Hi-C methods that used infrequent genome cutting enzymes, which will allow analysis of longer range interactions exclusively. To support this consideration, we performed Hi-CO by reducing MNase to 1/10th the usual amount and confirmed that the inter-chromosomal centromere/telomere clustering, as seen in conventional Hi-C , could be detected . Both methods are based on proximity ligation of mono-nucleosomal DNA fragments digested with MNase . Thereby, after proximity ligation, DNA products ligating two mono-nucleosomal fragments were extracted by EcoP15I digestion and subsequent purification with avidin beads and size-selection  were removed by DNA end tagging and purification , long chemical cross-linkers were used in step 1 and separation of soluble and insoluble chromatin was performed after step 2.This protocol difference caused differences in output read features between Hi-CO and Micro-C . In fact, this outward read occurrence overwhelmed ≤ 1 kbp short distance reads in DNase Hi-C, whereas the inward reads dominated the short distance reads in Micro-C  and Micro-C . To obtain the ratios for ChIA-PET and Micro-C, we classified all the reads as either inter or intra-chromosomal. We then omitted reads from spurious products due to self-ligated or un-ligated products by ignoring outward . To examine this possibility, we performed Hi-CO on M phase synchronized cells created by another method, in which cells originally arrested to G1 phase with alpha-factor were released in fresh medium and incubated for 80 min to reach M phase. FACS and genome sequencing measurements indicated that this alpha-factor arrested/released culture had a similar distribution of genome copy number to the original nocodazole arrested culture . The results support that the microtubule depolymerization with nocodazole did not cause significant differences in local chromosome structures between both cultures.For conventional Hi-C data, it was proposed that mirror reads , which represented pairs of reads mapped to the same strand of the same fragment, was considered to suggest the presence of homologous chromosomes in the same nuclei at S and M phase. But in Hi-CO, such mirror reads, which were analyzed as the N/N tandem reads, can also be caused by self-ligation between different DNA fragments within the same nucleosome caused by the MNase endonuclease activity. In fact, a large amount of mirror reads were observed in the data in the G1 phase culture having single copy of chromosome. Therefore, we concluded that in Hi-CO or other Hi-C that used endonuclease targeting on non-specific genome sequences, it was difficult to obtain meaningful information for structures of homologous chromosomes in the nuclei.Figure S6C shows the Hi-CO matrix around the centromere regions at G1, S and M phase. We found that in S phase chromatin, several chromosomes had interactions suggesting loop extrusion around the centromere, although other chromosomes did not. We did not find any significant association of this feature with epigenetic events including cohesin protein Scc1 binding, but expect that such interaction patterns occurred due to mechanical effects resulting from centromere clustering.Comparison with previous chromosome fiber modelsTo examine consistency between the simulated three D chromatin configurations and theoretical fiber models .Applicability of Hi-CO method to a metazoan genomeAn important challenge for the Hi-CO method in the future will be to measure a metazoan genome, however we expect multiple technical hurdles to realize this. One major issue for analyzing a metazoan genome is the genome size. Whereas the size of the yeast genome is 12 Mbp, the size of typical metazoan genome is 100 Mbp for nematode, 130 Mbp for fruit fly and 3.2 Gbp for human. Since one full lane of Illumina sequencing is currently used to analyze the yeast genome, the sequencing read depth for quantitative analysis will be a significant practical problem. Also, the computational time in the SA-MD simulation will increase in proportion to the square of the genome size. To solve this issue, we expect that enriching sequencing reads for specific genomic regions, or a technique called Capture C , will be necessary. We expect that enrichment for specific chromosomes, gene encoding regions or promoter regions will be worthwhile. In addition, for a large genome, the short sequencing length for mapping in Hi-CO . Despite these hurdles, the analysis on metazoan genomes will be very attractive, since it would enable investigation of detailed genome structures of differentiating or diseased cells.Correspondence with meiotic chromatin loopingIn contrast to infrequent chromatin looping at M phase . This difference in looping frequency may be explained as resulting from specific mechanisms in either of mitosis or meiosis, such as Rec8 mediated sister chromatid cohesion . Meanwhile, this difference can also be explained by the difference in DNA fragmentation size between Hi-CO and the previous assays . Quantification and Statistical Analysis Multinomial test for biased compositions of read typesAs described in the main text, we examined biased compositions of read types in Hi-CO matrix using a multinomial test. Of nucleosome pairs with > 10 total interaction counts . We also observed a weak correlation when analyzing the correlation between the GC composition of ± 15 bp around the entry or exit point and the respective upstream or downstream half fragment size, and also observed a weak positive correlation (Figure S3L) (r = 0.177 ± 0.008 (n = 63,437 loci) and 0.184 ± 0.008 (n = 63,436 loci), for DNA entry and exit points, respectively).Further, we examined to what extent the spikes of inward interaction frequency at TSS or TES (Figure S3H) could be explained by the whole nucleotide composition within nucleosome and the full fragment size. To do this, we analyzed dependence of the inward interaction frequency on the nucleotide composition or the fragment size (Figure S3O) and compared with the increased amount of inward interaction frequency at TSS/TES ( = 0.276) compared to the whole genome ( = 0.262). As a result, we found that the maximum inward interaction frequency was 0.265 and 0.265 when analyzing dependence for the nucleosome composition and fragment size, respectively. This suggests the artificial contribution of these factors on the inward frequency is 21% in the worst case ( = the case all the increase of inward frequency can be attributed to these factors). Analysis of average nucleosome folding structures subject to specific epigenetic lociAverage nucleosome folding structures at nucleosome loci that showed specific epigenetic characters (Figure 4D) were analyzed as follows. The average structures were analyzed in terms of three metric parameters, inter-nucleosome distance and orientation, in addition to the alpha- and beta- probability. These parameters were evaluated by averaging these levels for selected nucleosome loci that showed specific epigenetic properties. The properties include various transcription factor bindings or histone modifications, and were given by corresponding genome-wide ChIP-seq profiles reported previously. The profiles were obtained from the Saccharomyces genome database (https://www.yeastgenome.org/) or from journal websites of relevant papers, as listed in Table S1. From the datasets, lists of combinations of genomic addresses and parameter values to be analyzed were extracted. We formatted these profiles to nucleosome levels by obtaining representative values for every nucleosome locus by calculating summations or averages of the parameter values. The calculation method depended on the types of parameters; summations were chosen if the parameters were all above zero (called the number type), which represented parameters such as read counts, whereas averages were chosen if the parameters included negative values (called the score type), such as Z-scores. For all the databases, averaged parameters were calculated for nucleosome loci that were within the top 1% in values among all nucleosome loci. Correlation analysis between motif occurrence and epigenetic profilesCorrelation analyses between nucleosome orientation bias at each locus and previously reported genome-wide characteristics (Figure 6E) were processed as follows. To identify genomic loci of various motif structures, we performed pattern recognition on the Hi-CO matrix. Loop motifs were recognized based on a summed matrix from total counts of inward, outward and tandem reads and goodness-of-fit to motif patterns was evaluated under a 2D moving window to obtain interacting loci pairs. Oriented cluster motifs were recognized for each read category based on a matrix of the corresponding read type. Then, correlation coefficients between the obtained parameter profiles and the motif profile were evaluated. Z-scores were calculated by standardizing the coefficients with their statistical errors obtained by bootstrapping. Non-uniquely mapped genomic regions, whose sequences were mapped to multiple locations (e.g., repetitive genomic regions) were excluded from the analysis. As other motif structures, we found ‘one-directional’ structure (Figures S7D and S7E), where an individual nucleosome interacted exclusively with either the up- or downstream nucleosomes. We also recognized them based on a summed matrix from total counts and the goodness-of-fit analysis under a 2D moving window. Correlation analysis between inter-nucleosome distance and orientation, and alpha/beta- structure occurrenceTo characterize the relationship between the nucleosome folding parameters of inter-nucleosome distance, inward orientation bias and beta-structure preference, we analyzed correlation plots between these parameters at each locus (Figure S7A). We found a stronger correlation between inter-nucleosome distance and beta-structure preference (r = 0.23 ± 0.009, n = 61,699 loci), but less correlation between inter-nucleosome distance and inward orientation bias (r = 0.11 ± 0.01, n = 62,926 loci), and no correlation between inward orientation bias and beta-structure preference (r = 0.066 ± 0.008, n = 61,699 loci). These data support a stronger association tendency between inter-nucleosome distance and beta-structure preference (Figure 4D). In contrast, the data also suggest a large variation in the coupling between the three parameters. Data and Software AvailabilityThe accession number for all Hi-CO sequencing data reported in this paper is Bioproject: PRJNA427106